> Discuss the effect planned obsolescence has on the environment and what designers can to limit this. You should use examples to support your answer.

There are many ways a product can become obsolete, and here I'll focus on two main areas - planned obsolescence, and progress. With each example, I'll also mention methods the designer could use to make it more sustainable.

Firstly - items which have a very specific planned lifetime from the designers, enforced by them rather than an external force. I'll start with fast fashion, which is characterised by a low quality of manufacture that allows it to only be worn a few times, and also by the fact that it often isn't worn long enough to wear out as it quickly becomes visually obsolete. Here, I'll suggest that the entire industry is at fault, and unless they can work out a way to make old clothes fashionable again at a higher build quality then it is a fundamentally unethical industry, based on manipulation of self-esteem. Next, I'll talk about one area where planned obsolescence is not only the norm but highly encouraged - medical equipment. Since lots of medical items need to be sterile to avoid infections and sepsis, the easiest way to guarantee that is to have lots of things (like needles or cotton swabs) only ever be used once, rather than trying to clean them. Whilst I would like to see some improvement here, this might possibly need to wait for future material innovations which can be more easily sterilised to the high standards required of the industry. 

Next - progress. One often cited example of Planned Obsolescence is Software Updates, which often only support a set number of devices, and Apple is often called out for this. I'd like to instead see this as the price of progress. Here, to improve Apple could try making sure to put code-based optimisations at the forefront of their operations, or possibly to allow older devices to be upgraded more easily to be compatible. Next, are better material options. Asbestos insulation and radium watches used to be popular due to their unique properties (keeping heat and glowing in the dark respectively), and these features made them incredibly useful. However, these are now being phased out and/or contained and destroyed due to more dangerous properties that we now know about (cause of lung cancer, and cause of radiation poisoning respectively). Whilst progress can talk about industry as a whole, it can also talk about people progressing through their lives. If we take a look at lots of children's products, they often are bad for sustainability because the child grows out of them incredibly quickly - especially clothes. One example of a manufacturer improving in this field is the *Tripp Trapp* chair which can be adjusted for sizing as the child grows. It also has screws rather than dowels, meaning that it can be easily repaired and parts can be replaced.