---
tags: ["DesignEngineering", "DesignEngineering/ProblemSolving"]
subject: DesignEngineering
topic: ProblemSolving
type: "Atomic Note"
---

There is lots to consider when making a product to heat up Baby Milk, but it mainly goes into Heating and Mixing.

Firstly, Heating. The designers must ensure that the heating method is safe. For example, this might disqualify the traditional coils you might see in a kettle, because a baby would be able to touch those. A designer might instead consider using an external source, and then something like a double-walled vacuum sealed thermos to keep temperature when the desired temperature is reached. As for the required temperature, we must ensure that this is accurate to avoid burning the baby or having milk that is too cold. This could be done in a large number of ways, each with advantages and disadvantages. For example, the designer could incorporate a bimetallic strip that exploits the curie temperature of various alloys, but they might have trouble communicating the temperature to the user. The opposite could be using a thermochromic polymer, but then you might have accuracy concerns. The best solution would be a thermostat and a digital display, but these become difficult to incorporate into a small, self-contained unit. The designer might also need to incorporate accessibility features for people who struggle with sight, sound or arthritis. 

Next, Mixing. There are many different ways of mixing the products together. You could borrow from the chemistry world and use a magnetic stirrer, but this induces the requirement of a base plate that must be powered and magnetic for the mechanism to work, and also provides a choking hazard if the mother forgets to take it out. They could also use a whisk, but this might have splashing issues which is never good with scalding hot milk, and even with cold milk could cause the powder to be flung around. Another concern around mixing include making sure that the mixture is optimally mixed to ensure the baby doesn't come across a pocket of powder that wasn't incorporated which could hurt the baby. You also need to worry about sterilisation of any external mixing implement to avoid bacteria and fungi. Finally, you need to look at spillage to ensure that firstly the ratios aren't changed, as well as to avoid spilling scalding hot milk on baby or mother.